
---
layout: post
title: 'Summary for "Robust Visual Localization in Changing Lighting Conditions"'
subtitle: Author: 
tags: ["Visual Localization", "light changing condition"]
---

## Goal
Provide an illumination-robust visual localization alogrithm for Astrobee* <br>
that automatically recognizing the current `illumination level`, and selecting `an appropriate map` and `camera exposure time`. <br>
(* Astrobee, a free-flying robot designed to autonomously navigate on the International Space Station (ISS))

## Astrobee’s Current Localization System
- Offline Map Construction + Online Image Localization
  - Offline Map Construction
    - why: operating region is fixed + provide higher stability and accuracy than existing SLAM systems.
    - how: the following four steps <br>
      1. SfM (SURF)
      2. rebuilding Map with `BRISK feautres` <br>
         - tradeoff between (accurate & robust) and efficiency with respect to SURF features
            - less accurate and robust (critical for accurate offline map building) 
            - faster (critical for online localization)
      3. Registration to ISS Coordinate 
         - the map is registered to the pre-defined ISS coordinate system
      4. Vocabulary Tree Database 
         - constructed for fast retrieval of similar images for localization
  - Online Image Localization
     - how: the following four steps <br>
       1. detect Features with BRISK
       2. vocabulary Tree DB Query
       3. P3P with RANSAC
       4. Pose-only Bundle Adjustment

## Investigation for changing lighting condition (Setting)
- images taken under ten different conditions simulating day, night and intermediate lighting levels on the ISS.
  - for each lighting level: 
      - nearly 2500 images were recorded
      - a digital light meter on a fixed point on the wall measured the luminance in lux.
- the robot slides freely on the surface of the table, constrained to motion on the two dimensional plane
- localization algorithm `computes the full 6 DoF camera pose`
- an overhead camera and an AR tag on Astrobee measure the ground truth pose

## Observation for changing lighting condition
- dark maps below 45 lux show over an 80% success rate regardless of lighting conditions. 
- bright maps over 60 lux work well only with bright images.
  - why: the feature descriptors cannot describe features in bright lighting conditions well <br>
         because many image intensity values are saturated. <br>
         In dark conditions, saturation rarely occurs.
- the most effective combination for stable localization is <br>
  to use a map constructed in the same lighting conditions as the test images. 
  
