---
layout: post
title: 'Point Cloud Registraion'
tags: ["Point Cloud Registration"]

---

## NON-LEARNING BASED
### Classical
- `ICP`: local method. heavily rely on inital estimate, and then refine iteratively.
  
- `Variant ICP (local)`: Generalized-ICP (RSS, 2009), Trimmed-ICP (IMAVIS, 2005)
  
- `Variant ICP (global)`: multiple restarts, graph optimization, branch-and-bound
  - multiple restarts (Registration of range data using a hybrid simulated annealing and iterative closest point algorithm, ICRA, 2000)
  - graph optimization (Globally consistent registration of terrestrial laser scans via graph optimization, ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 2015)
  - branch-and-bound (Gogma: Globally-optimal gaussian mixture alignment, CVPR, 2016)
  
### Probabilistic based
- `Correlation based`
  - Robust point set registration using gaussian mixture models, PAMI, 2011
  - A correlation-based approach to robust point set registration, ECCV, 2004 
  
- `EM based`
  - CPD (Coherent Point Drift), PAMI, 2010
  - JRMPC (Joint Registration of Multiple Point Clouds), ECCV, 2014
  - DARE (Density Adaptive Point Set Registration), CVPR, 2018
    - Desnity adaptive version of JRMPC
    - The **density variation is problematic for standard ML-based approaches** since each 3D-point corresponds to an observation with equal weight. Thus, the registration focuses on regions with high point densities, while neglecting sparse regions

### Plane based
- Efficient and accurate registration of point clouds with plane to plane correspondences, ICCV Workshop, 2017

### handcrafted descriptor
  - USC, SHOT, ...

---

## LEARNING BASED  
### descriptor
  - stablish the pointwise candidate correspondences in combination with a RANSAC-like robust estimator or geometric hashing.
  - patch-based networks
    - `3DMatch (CVPR'17)`: 
    It voxelizes the region around each keypoint and 
    compute descriptors with a 3DCNN trained using a contrastive loss.

    - `CGF (ICCV'17)`: 
    It maps 3D oriented histograms to a low-dimensional feature space using multi-layer perceptrons.

    - `PpfNet (CVPR'18), PpfFoldNet (ECCV'18)`: since voxelization results is in a loss of quality, they uses a PointNet architecture to learn features directly from raw point clouds. PpfFoldNet adopts folding-based autoencoder to learn a local descriptor

    - `3DSmoothNet (CVPR'19)`: employs a voxelized smoothed density value (SDV) representation for descriptor learning. predicts a patch-wise detection score, whereas only limited spatial context is considered and a dense inference for the entire point cloud is not applicable in practice. 

  - fully-convolutional networks
    - `FCGF (ICCV'19)`: compared with 3DMatch, CGF, PPFFoldNet, PPFNet, 3DSmoothNet, it has higer receptive field prior works extract a small 3D patch or a set of points and map it to a low-dimensional space. It uses sparse convolution proposed in [1] to extract feature descriptors and achieves rotation invariance by simple data augmentation.

### detector
  - `USIP`
  
### detector and descriptor
  - `3DFeatNet (ECCV'18)`: 
  predicts a patch-wise detection score, whereas only limited spatial context is considered 
  and a dense inference for the entire point cloud is not applicable in practice.

  - `D3Feat (CVPR'20)`: 
  draw inspiration from D2-Net in 2D domain for a joint learning of a feature detector and descriptor
  
### registration

 - `PointNetLK (CVPR'19)`: **X**
 It is designed to be **iterative**.
 It combines PointNet and image alignment method Lucas-Kanade algorithm. 
 It computes a global representation of each point cloud,
 then optimizes the transforms to minimize the distances between
 the global descriptors in an iterative fashion analogous to the LK algorithm.
 The use of LK produces good generalizability to 
 shapes unseen in training, but is not robust to noise.
 
 - `PCRNet (ICCV'19)`: **X**
 It is designed to be **iterative**.
 It replaces the LK step in PointNetLK with a deep network.
 [[code]](https://github.com/vinits5/pcrnet)
 
 - `DCP (ICCV'19)`: **V** 
 It is **not iterative**, but can be improved by ICP.
 It extracts features for each point to compute a soft matching 
 between the point clouds before using a differentiable SVD module to 
 extract the rigid transformation.  
 It utilize a transformer network to 
 incorporate global and inter point cloud information when 
 computing the feature representations.
 
 - `PR-Net (NIPS'19)` : **V** 
 It is designed to be **iterative**.
 It incorporates **keypoint detection** to handle partial visibility.
 It can handle partial-to-partial point cloud registration, and outperform DCP and PointNetLK.
 (performance on partial-to-partial point cloud registration: PR-Net > DCP > PointNetLK)
 [[code]](https://github.com/WangYueFt/prnet)
 
 - `RPM-Net (CVPR'20)`: **V** 
 It is designed to be **iterative**.
 It is based on the RPM (New algorithms for 2D and 3D
 point matching: pose estimation and correspondence, PR'98) framework. 
 To handle outliers and  partial visibility with the use of Sinkhorn normalization from RPM. 
 Spatial distances in RPM are replaced with learned hybrid feature distances.
 It can well handle partial-to-partial point cloud registration, and outperform DCP, PointNetLK, and PR-Net.
 (performance on partial-to-partial point cloud registration: RPM-Net >> PR-Net > DCP > PointNetLK)
 [[code]](https://github.com/yewzijian/RPMNet)
 
 - `3DReg (CVPR'20)`: **X** It solves the outlier rejection given 3D point correspondences.
 SUN3D used in 3DReg is reconstrcuted by SfM. 
 [[code]](https://github.com/3DVisionISR/3DRegNet)
 
 - `DGR (CVPR'20)`: **V** It outperforms DCP and PointNetLK.
 [[code]](https://github.com/chrischoy/DeepGlobalRegistration)
  
